 
1113 – 1 
 (Adopted Sept. 2, 1977)(Amended Dec. 2, 1977)(Amended Feb. 3, 1978)  
(Amended Sept. 5, 1980)(Amended Apr. 3, 1981)(Amended July 3, 1981)  
(Amended by California Air Resources Board Oct. 21, 1981)  
(Amended Aug. 5, 1983)(Amended Mar. 16, 1984)(Amended Aug. 2, 1985)  
(Amended Nov. 1, 1985)(Amended Feb. 6, 1987)(Amended Jan. 5, 1990)  
(Amended Feb. 2, 1990)(Amended Nov. 2, 1990)(Amended Dec. 7, 1990)  
(Amended Sept. 6, 1991)(Amended March 8, 1996)(Amended August 9, 1996)  
(Amended November 8, 1996)(Amended May 14, 19 99; Vacated)  
(Amended July 20, 2001)(Amended December 6, 2002)(Amended December 5, 2003)  
(Amended July 9, 2004)(Amended June 9, 2006)(Amended July 13, 2007)  
(Amended June 3 , 201 1)(Amended  September 6 , 2013)  
(Amended  February 5, 2016 ) 
 
 
RULE 1113.  ARCHITECT URAL COATINGS  
(a) Applicability  
This rule is applicable to any person who supplies, sells, markets , offers for sale,  or 
manufactures any architectural coating that is intended to be field applied within the 
District to stationary structures or their appurtena nces, and to fields and lawns; as well as 
any person who applies , stores at a worksite,  or solicits the application of any 
architectural coating within the District.  The purpose of this rule is to limit the VOC 
content of architectural coatings used in th e District.  
(b) Definitions  
For the purpose of this rule, the following definitions shall apply:  
(1) AEROSOL COATING PRODUCT means a pressurized coating product 
containing pigments , resins , and/or other coatings solids that dispenses product 
ingredients by means of a propellant, and is packaged in a disposable aerosol 
container for hand -held application, or for use in specialized equipment for 
ground marking and traffic marking applications.  
(2) ALUMINUM ROOF COATINGS are roof coatings containing at least 0.7 pounds 
per gallon (84 grams per liter) of coating as applied, of elemental aluminum 
pigment.  
(3) APPURTENANCES are accessories to a stationary structure including, but not 
limited to: hand railings, cabinets, bathroom and kitchen fixtures, fences, rain -
gutters and dow n-spouts, window screens, lamp -posts, heating and air 
conditioning equipment, other mechanical equipment, large fixed stationary tools, 
signs, motion picture and television production sets, and concrete forms.  
(4) ARCHITECTURAL COATINGS are any coatings applie d to stationary structures  
or their appurtenances, or to fields and lawns.  Rule 1113 (Cont.)  (Amended February 5, 2016 ) 
1113 – 2 (5) BELOW -GROUND WOOD PRESERVATIVES are wood preservatives 
formulated to protect below -ground wood.  
(6) BITUMINOUS COATING MATERIALS are black or brownish coating 
materials, soluble in carb on disulfide, consisting mainly of hydrocarbons and 
which are obtained from natural deposits, or as residues from the distillation of 
crude petroleum oils, or of low grades of coal.  
(7) BITUMINOUS ROOF PRIMERS are primers formulated for or applied to 
roofing t hat incorporate bituminous coating materials.  
(8) BOND BREAKERS are coatings formulated for or appl ied between layers of 
concrete to prevent the freshly poured top layer of concrete from bonding to the 
substrate over which it is poured.   Bond breakers will be exempt from Rules 1113 
and 314 upon adoption of Rule 1161 – Release Agents  or any other Regulation XI 
rule limiting the VOC content of bond breakers . 
(9) BUILDING ENVELOPE is the ensemble of exterior and demising partitions of a 
building that enclose condition ed space.  
(10) BUILDING ENVELOPE COATINGS are fluid applied coatings applied to the 
building envelope to provide a continuous barrier to air or vapor leakage through 
the building envelope that separates conditioned from unconditioned spaces.  
Building Envelope Coatings are applied to diverse materials including , but not 
limited to , concrete masonry units (CMU), oriented stranded board (OSB), 
gypsum board, and wood substrates and must meet the following performance 
criteria : 
(A) Air Barriers formulated to have an air  permeance not exceeding 0.004 
cubic feet per minute per square foot under a pressure differential of 1.57 
pounds per square foot (0.004 cfm/ft2 @ 1.57 psf ), [0.02 liters per square 
meter per second under a pressure differential of 75 Pa (0.02 L/(s m2) @ 
75 Pa)] when tested in accordance with ASTM E2178; and/or  
(B) Water Resistive Barriers formulated to resist liquid water that has 
penetrated a cladding system from further intruding into the exterior wall 
assembly and is classified as follows:  
(i) Passes water resi stance testing according to ASTM E331, and  
(ii) Water vapor permeance is classified in accordance with ASTM 
E96/E96M.  
(11) COATING is a material which is applied to a surface in order to beautify, protect, 
or provide a barrier to such surface.  
(12) COLORANTS are solutio ns of dyes or suspensions of pigments.  Rule 1113 (Cont.)  (Amended February 5, 2016 ) 
1113 – 3 (13) COLOR INDICATING SAFETY COATINGS are industrial maintenance 
coatings for safety management of process streams to prevent or minimize the 
consequences of the release of toxic, reactive, flammable or explosive substance s, 
and include chemical and thermal color indicating coatings.  
(14) CONCENTRATE S are  coating s supplied in a form that must be diluted with 
water or an exempt compound, prior to application, according to the architectural 
coatings manufacturer’s application inst ructions in order to yield the desired 
coating properties.  
(15) CONCRETE -CURING COMPOUNDS are coatings formulated for or applied to 
freshly poured concrete to retard the evaporation of water.  Concrete -curing 
compounds manufactured and used for roadways and bri dges (does not include 
curbs and gutters, sidewalks, islands, driveways and other miscellaneous concrete 
areas) are those concrete -curing compounds that meet ASTM Designation C309, 
Class B, and meet a loss of water standard of less than 0.15 -kg/m2 in 24 ho urs as 
determined by the California Transportation Department, California Test 534.  
(16) CONCRETE SURFACE RETARDERS are coating s containing one or more 
ingredients such as extender pigments, primary pigments, resin s, and solvent s that 
interact chemically with t he cement to prevent hardening on the surface where the 
retarder is applied, allowing the mix of cement and sand at the surface to be 
washed away to create an exposed aggregate finish.  
(17) DEFAULT COATINGS are specialty coatings  (those other than flat or nonfl at 
coatings ) that are not defined in section (b) as any other coating category.  
(18) DRIVEWAY SEALERS are coatings that are applied to worn asphalt driveway 
surfaces in order to:  
(A) Fill cracks;  
(B) Seal the surface to provide protection;  or 
(C) Restore or preserve the surface appearance.  
(19) DRY -FOG COATINGS are coatings which are formulated only for spray 
application so that when sprayed, overspray droplets dry before falling on floors 
and other surfaces.  
(20) EXEMPT COMPOUNDS (See Rule 102 -Definition of Terms.)  
(21) FAUX FINISHING C OATINGS are coatings that meet one o r more of the 
following subcategories : 
(A) CLEAR TOPCOATS are clear coatings used to enhance, seal and protect 
a Faux Finishing coating that meets the requirements of subsection 
(b)(21)(B), (C), (D) or ( E).  These clear topc oats must be sold and used Rule 1113 (Cont.)  (Amended February 5, 2016 ) 
1113 – 4 solely as part of a Faux Finishing or graphic arts coating system, and must 
be labeled in accordance paragraph (d)(7).  
(B) DECORATIVE COATINGS are coatings used to create a gonioapparent 
appearance, such as metallic, iridescent, or p earlescent appearance, that 
contain at least 48 grams of pearlescent mica pigment or other iridescent 
pigment per liter of coating as applied (at least 0.4 pounds per gallon).  
(C) GLAZES  are coating s formulated and recommended to be used (or to be 
mixed with a nother coating) for: 
(i)  Wet-in-wet techniques , where a wet coating is applied over 
another wet coating to create artistic effects, including simulated 
marble or wood grain, or  
(ii) Wet-in-dry techniques , where a wet coating is applied over a pre-
painted or a spe cially prepared substrate or base coat and is either 
applied or is treated during the drying period with various tools , 
such as a brush, rag, comb, or sponge  to create artistic effects such  
as dirt, old age, smoke damage, simulated marble and wood grain 
finishes, decorative patterns, or color blending . 
(D) JAPANS are pure concentrated pigments, finely ground in a slow drying 
vehicle used by Motion Picture and Television Production Studios to 
create artistic effects including , but not limited to, dirt, old age, smoke 
damage, water damage, simulated marble , and wood grain.  
(E) TROWEL APPLIED COATING S are coatings  exclusively applied by 
trowel that are used to create aesthetic effects including, but not limited to , 
polished plaster, clay, suede and dimensional, tactile  textures.  
(22) FIRE -PROOFING COATINGS are opaque coatings formulated to protect the 
structural integrity of steel and other construction materials and listed by 
Underwriter's Laboratories, Inc. for the fire protection of steel.  
(23) FLAT COATINGS are coatings that register a gloss of less than 15 on an 85 -
degree meter or less than 5 on a 60 -degree meter  according to ASTM Test 
Method D 523 . 
(24) FLOOR COATINGS are opaque coatings that are formulated for or applied to 
flooring including , but not limited to , flooring for garages, decks , and porches .  
Floor coatings also include  clear coatings formulated for or applied to concrete 
flooring .  Floor coatings do not include Industrial Maintenance Coatings.  
(25) FORM RELEASE COMPOUNDS are coatings designed for or applied to a 
concrete  form to prevent the freshly poured concrete from bonding to the form.  Rule 1113 (Cont.)  (Amended February 5, 2016 ) 
1113 – 5 The form may consist of metal, wood, or some material other than concrete.   
Form release compounds will be exempt from Rules 1113 and 314 upon adoption 
of Rule 1161 – Release Agents  or any other Regulation XI Rule limiting the VOC 
content of form release compounds . 
(26) FORMULATION DATA is the actual product recipe which itemizes all the 
ingredients contained in a product including VOCs and the quantities thereof used 
by the manufacturer to create the product.  Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) 
are not considered formulation data.  
(27) GONIOAPPARENT means a change in appearance with a change in the angle of 
illumination or the angle of view, as defined according to ASTM E 284.  
(28) GRAMS OF VOC PER LI TER OF COATING  OR COLORANT , LESS WATER 
AND LESS EXEMPT COMPOUNDS, is the weight of VOC per combined 
volume of VOC and coating or colorant solids and can be calculated by the 
following equation:  
Grams of VOC per Liter of Coating, Less  = Ws - Ww - Wes 
Water  and Less Exempt Compounds  Vm - Vw - Ves 
 
Where:   
Ws  
=  
weight of volatile compounds in grams  
 Ww = weight of water in grams  
 Wes = weight of exempt compounds in grams  
 Vm = volume of material in liters  
 Vw = volume of water in liters  
 Ves = volume of exempt compounds in liters  
For coatings that contain reactive diluents, the Grams of VOC per Liter of 
Coating, Less Water and Less Exempt Compounds, shall be calculated by the 
following equation:  
Grams of VOC per Liter of Coating, Less  = Ws - Ww - Wes 
Water and Less Exempt Compounds  Vm - Vw - Ves 
 
Where:   
Ws  
=  
weight of volatile compounds emitted during 
curing, in grams  
 Ww = weight of water emitted during curing, in grams  Rule 1113 (Cont.)  (Amended February 5, 2016 ) 
1113 – 6  Wes = weight of exempt compounds emitted during 
curing, in grams  
 Vm = volume of the material prior to reaction, in liters  
 Vw = volume of water emitted during curing, in liters  
 Ves = volume of exempt compounds emitted during 
curing, in liters  
(29) GRAMS OF VOC PER LITER OF MATERIAL is the weight of VOC per 
volume of material an d can be calculated by the following equation:  
Grams of VOC per Liter of Material  = Ws - Ww - Wes 
Vm 
Where:  Ws = weight of volatile compounds in grams  
 Ww = weight of water in grams  
 Wes = weight of exempt compounds in grams  
 Vm = volume of the materi al in liters  
 
(30) GRAPHIC ARTS COATINGS (Sign Paints) are coatings formulated for hand -
application by artists using brush or roller techniques to indoor and outdoor signs 
(excluding structural components) and murals, including lettering enamels, poster 
colors , copy blockers, and bulletin enamels.  
(31) HIGH -TEMPERATURE INDUSTRIAL MAINTENANCE COATINGS are 
industrial maintenance coatings formulated for or applied to substrates exposed 
continuously or intermittently to temperatures above 400 degrees Fahrenheit.  
(32) INDUSTR IAL MAINTENANCE COATINGS  are coatings, including primers, 
sealers, undercoaters, intermediate coatings and topcoats, formulated for or 
applied to substrates, including floors, that are exposed to one or more of the 
following extreme environmental condition s: 
(A) Immersion in water, wastewater, or chemical solutions (aqueous and non -
aqueous solutions), or chronic exposure of interior surfaces to moisture 
condensation;  
(B) Acute or chronic exposure to corrosive, caustic or acidic agents, or similar 
chemicals, chemica l fumes, chemical mixtures, or solutions;  
(C) Repeated exposure to temperatures in excess of 250 degrees Fahrenheit;  
(D) Repeated heavy abrasion, including mechanical wear and repeated 
scrubbing with industrial solvents, cleaners, or scouring agents; or  Rule 1113 (Cont.)  (Amended February 5, 2016 ) 
1113 – 7 (E) Exterior e xposure of metal structures.  
(33) INTERIOR STAINS are stains labeled and formulated exclusively for use on 
interior surfaces.  
(34) LACQUERS are clear or pigmented w ood topcoats or clear lacquer sanding 
sealers, both formulated with nitrocellulose or synthetic resins  to dry by 
evaporation without chemical reaction.  
(35) LOW -SOLIDS COATINGS are coatings containing one pound or less of solids 
per gallon of material.  
(36) MAGNESITE CEMENT COATINGS are coatings formulated for or applied to 
magnesite cement decking to protect the ma gnesite cement substrate from erosion 
by water.  
(37) MANUFACTURER is any person, company, firm, or establishment who imports, 
blends, assembles, produces, packages, repackages, or re -labels an architectural 
coating, excluding retail outlets where labels or stic kers may be affixed to 
containers or where colorant is added at the point of sale . 
(38) MARKET means  to facilitate sale s through third party vendors  including , but not 
limited to , catalog or ecommerce sales that  bring together buyers and sellers .  For 
the purpo ses of this rule, market does not mean to generally  promot e or advertise 
coatings . 
(39) MASTIC COATINGS are coatings formulated to cover holes and minor cracks 
and to conceal surface irregularities, excluding roof coatings, and applied in a 
thickness of at leas t 10 mils (dry, single coat).  
(40) METALLIC PIGMENTED COATINGS are decorative  coatings, excluding 
industrial maintenance and  roof coatings, containing at least 0.4 pounds per gallon 
(48 grams/liter) of coating, as applied, of elemental metallic pigment (excludi ng 
zinc).  
(41) MULTI -COLOR COATINGS are coatings which exhibit more than one color 
when applied , are packaged in a single container and applied in a single coat.  
(42) MULTI -COMPONENT COATING S are reactive coating s requiring the addition 
of a separate catalyst or har dener before application to form an acceptable dry 
film.  
(43) NONFLAT COATINGS are coatings that register a gloss of 5 or greater on a 60 
degree meter and a gloss of 15 or greater on an 85 degree meter according to 
ASTM Test Method D 523.  
(44) NON -SACRIFICIAL ANTI -GRAFFITI COATINGS are clear or opaque 
Industrial Maintenance Coatings formulated and recommended to deter adhesion Rule 1113 (Cont.)  (Amended February 5, 2016 ) 
1113 – 8 of graffiti and to resist repeated scrubbing and exposure to harsh solvents, 
cleansers, or scouring agents used to remove graffiti.  
(45) PEARLESCEN T means exhibiting various colors depending on the angles of 
illumination and viewing, as observed in mother -of-pearl.  
(46) PIGMENTED means containing colorant or dry coloring matter, such as an  
insoluble powder, to impart color to a substrate.  
(47) POST -CONSUMER CO ATINGS are finished coatings that would have been 
disposed of in a landfill, having completed their usefulness to a consumer, and 
does not include manufacturing wastes.  
(48) PRE-TREATMENT WASH PRIMERS are coatings which contain a minimum of 
0.5 percent acid, by  weight, applied directly to bare metal surfaces to provide 
necessary surface etching.  
(49) PRIMERS are coatings applied to a surface to provide a firm bond between the 
substrate and subsequent coats.  
(50) QUICK -DRY ENAMELS are nonflat, high gloss coatings which com ply with the 
following:  
(A) Shall be capable of being applied directly from the container by brush or 
roller under normal conditions, normal conditions being ambient 
temperatures between 60 F and 80F; and  
(B) When tested in accordance with ASTM D 1640 they shall set-to-touch in 
two hours or less, dry -hard in eight hours or less, and be tack -free in four 
hours or less by the mechanical test method.   Coatings classified as quick -
dry enamels are subsumed by the nonflat coating category.  
(51) QUICK -DRY PRIMERS, SEALERS , AN D UNDERCOATERS are primers, 
sealers, and undercoaters which are intended to be applied to a surface to provide 
a firm bond between the substrate and subsequent coats and which are dry -to-
touch in one -half hour and can be recoated in two hours when tested i n 
accordance with ASTM D 1640.   Coatings classified as quick -dry primers, 
sealers, and undercoaters are subsumed by the primer, sealer, undercoater 
category.  
(52) REACTIVE DILUENT is a liquid , VOC during application and one in which, 
through chemical and/or phy sical reaction, such as polymerization, becomes an 
integral part of the coating.  
(53) REACTIVE PENETRATING SEALERS are clear or pigmented coating s labeled 
and formulated for application to above -grade concrete and masonry substrates to 
provide protection from w ater and waterborne contaminants including, but not Rule 1113 (Cont.)  (Amended February 5, 2016 ) 
1113 – 9 limited to, alkalis, acids, and salts.  Reactive Penetrating Sealers must me et the 
following criteria : 
(A) Used only for reinforced concrete bridge structures for transportation 
projects within 5 miles of the  coast or above 4,000 feet  elevation ; or for 
restoration and/or preservation projects on registered historical buildings 
that are under the purview of a restoration architect.  
(B) Penetrate into concrete and masonry substrates and chemically react to 
form cova lent bonds with naturally occurring minerals in the substrate.  
(C) Line the pores of concrete and masonry substrates with a hydrophobic 
coating, but do not form a surface film.  
(D) Improve water repellency at least 80 percent after application on a 
concrete or mas onry substrate.  This performance must be verified on 
standardized test specimens, in accordance with one or more of the 
following standards: ASTM C67, or ASTM C97 /97M , or ASTM C140.  
(E) Provide a breathable waterproof barrier for concrete or masonry surfaces 
that does not prevent or substantially retard water vapor transmission.   
This performance must be verified on standardized test specimens, in 
accord ance with ASTM E96/E96M  or ASTM D6490 . 
(F) Meet the performance criteria listed in the National Cooperative High way 
Research Report 244 (1981), surface chloride screening applications, for 
products labeled and fo rmulated for vehicular traffic.  
(54) RECYCLED COATINGS are coatings manufactured by a certified recycled paint 
manufacturer and formulated such that 50 percent o r more of the total weight 
consists of secondary and post -consumer coatings and 10 percent or more of the 
total weight consists of post -consumer coatings.  
(55) RESTORATION ARCHITECT is an architect that has  a valid certificate of 
registration as an architect is sued by the California State Board of Architectural 
Examiners or the National Council of Architectural Registration Boards and 
working on registered historical restoration and/or preservation project s. 
(56) RETAIL OUTLET means any establishment at which archite ctural coatings  are 
sold or offered for sale to consumers.  
(57) ROOF COATINGS are coatings formulated for application to exterior roofs for 
the primary purpose of preventing penetration of the substrate by water, or 
reflecting heat and ultraviolet radiation.  Rule 1113 (Cont.)  (Amended February 5, 2016 ) 
1113 – 10 (58) RUST PREVENTATIVE COATINGS are coatings formulated for use in 
preventing the corrosion of metal surfaces in residential and commercial 
situations.  
(59) SACRIFICIAL ANTI -GRAFFITI COATINGS are non -binding, clear coatings 
which are formulated and recommended for ap plication s that allow for the 
removal of graffiti primarily by power washing.   
(60) SANDING SEALERS are clear wood coatings formulated for or applied to bare 
wood for sanding and to seal the wood for subsequent application (s) of coatings.  
(61) SEALERS are coatings applied to either block materials from penetrating into or 
leaching out of a substrate, to prevent subsequent coatings from being absorbed 
by the substrate, or to prevent harm to subsequent coatings by materials in the 
substrate.  
(62) SECONDARY (REWORK) COATING S are fragments of finished coatings or 
finished coatings from a manufacturing process that has converted resources into 
a commodity of real economic value, but does not include excess virgin resources 
of the manufacturing process.  
(63) SHELLACS are clear or pi gmented coatings formulated solely with the resinous 
secretions of the lac insect (laccifer lacca).  Shellacs are formulated to dry by 
evaporation without a chemical reaction providing a quick -drying, solid, 
protective film for priming and sealing stains a nd odors; and for wood finishing 
excluding floors.  
(64) SOLICIT is to require for use or to specify, by written or oral contract.  
(65) SPECIALTY PRIMERS are coatings formulated for or applied to a substrate to 
seal fire, smoke or water damage , or to condition excess ively chalky surfaces.  An 
excessively chalky surface is one that is defined as having chalk rating of four or 
less as determined by ASTM D4214 – Photographic Reference Standard No. 1 or 
the Federation of Societies for Coatings Technology “Pictorial Standa rds for 
Coatings Defects”.  
(66) STAINS are opaque or semi -transparent coatings which are formulated to change 
the color but not conceal the grain pattern or texture.  
(67) STATIONARY STRUCT URES include , but are not limited to, homes, office 
buildings, factories, mobi le homes, pavements, curbs, roadways, ra cetracks, and 
bridges . 
(68) STONE CONSOLIDANTS are coatings that are labeled and formulated for 
application to stone substrates to repair historical structures that have been Rule 1113 (Cont.)  (Amended February 5, 2016 ) 
1113 – 11 damaged by weathering or other decay mechanism s.  Stone Consolidants must 
meet all of  the following criteria:   
(A) Used only for restoration and/or preservation projects on registered 
historical buildings that are under the purview of a restoration architect.  
(B) Penetrate into stone substrates to create bon ds between particles and 
consolidate deteriorated material.  
(C) Specified and used in accordance with ASTM E2167.  
(69) SWIMMING POOL COATINGS are coatings specifically formulated for or 
applied to the interior of swimming pools including , but not limited to , water  park 
attractions, ponds and fountains, to resist swimming pool chemicals.  
(70) SWIMMING POOL REPAIR COATINGS are chlorinated, rubber -based coatings 
used for the repair and maintenance of swimming pools over existing chlorinated, 
rubber -based coatings.  
(71) TILE AND  STONE SEALERS are clear or pigmented sealers that are used for 
sealing tile, stone or grout to provide resistance against water, alkalis, acids, 
ultraviolet light or staining and which meet one of the following subcategories:  
(A) Penetrating sealers are polym er solutions that cross -link in the substrate 
and must meet the following criteria:  
(i) A fine particle structure to penetrate dense tile such as porcelain 
with absorption as low as 0.10  percent per ASTM C373, ASTM 
C97/C97M, or ASTM C642,  
(ii) Retain or increase st atic coefficient of friction per ANSI A137.1,  
(iii) Not create a topical surface film on the tile or stone, and  
(iv) Allow vapor transmission per ASTM E96/96M.  
(B) Film forming sealers which leave a protective film on the surface . 
(72) TINT BASE is an architectural coatin g to which colorants are added.  
(73) TOPCOAT is any final coating, applied in one or more coats, to the interior or 
exterior of a stationary structure or their appurtenances.  
(74) TRAFFIC COATINGS are coatings formulated for or applied to public streets, 
highways, a nd other surfaces including, but not limited to, curbs, berms, 
driveways, and parking lots.  
(75) TUB AND TILE REFINISHING COATINGS are clear or opaque coatings that 
are used exclusively for refinishing the surface of a bathtub, shower, or sink and 
must meet all  of the following criteria:  
(A) Have a scratch hardness of 3H or harder and a gouge hardness of 4H or 
harder as determined on bonderite 1000 in accordance with ASTM D3363,  Rule 1113 (Cont.)  (Amended February 5, 2016 ) 
1113 – 12 (B) Have a weight loss of 20 milligrams or less after 1000 cycles as 
determined with CS -17 w heels on bonderite 1000 in accordance with 
ASTM D4060,  
(C) Must withstand 1 ,000 hours or more of exposure with few or no #8 blisters 
as determined on unscribed bonderite in accordance with ASTM D4585, 
and ASTM D714, and  
(D) Must have an adhesion rating of 4B or be tter after 24 hours of recovery as 
determined on unscribed bonderite in accordance with ASTM D4585 and 
ASTM D3359.  
(76) UNDERCOATERS are coatings formulated for or applied to substrates to provide 
a smooth surface for subsequent coats.  
(77) VARNISHES are clear or pi gmented wood topcoats formulated with various 
resins to dry by chemical reaction.  
(78) VOLATILE ORGANIC  COMPOUND (VOC)  is as defined in Rule 102 – 
Definition of Terms.  For the purpose of this rule, tertiary butyl acetate ( tBAc) 
shall be considered exempt as a VOC only for purposes of VOC  emissions 
limitations or VOC  content requirements and will continue to be a VOC  for 
purposes of all recordkeeping, emissions reporting, photochemical dispersion 
modeling, and inventory requirements which apply to VOCs , when use d in 
industrial maintenance coatings , including zinc -rich industrial maintenance 
coatings  and non -sacrificial anti -graffiti coatings . 
(79) WATERPROOFING SEALERS are coatings which are formulated for the 
primary purpose of preventing penetration of porous substr ates by water.  
(80) WATERPROOFING CONCRETE/MASONRY SEALERS are clear or 
pigmented sealers that are formulated for sealing concrete and masonry to provide 
resistance against water, alkalis, acids, ultraviolet light, or staining.  
(81) WOOD COATINGS are film forming co atings used for application to wood 
substrates only, which are applied to substrates including floors, decks and 
porches. The Wood Coating category includes all lacquer s, varnish es and sanding 
sealers, regardless of whether they are clear, semi -transparent  or opaque.  
(82) WOOD CONDITIONERS are coatings  that are formulated for or applied to bare 
wood , prior to  applying a  stain , to provide uniform penetration of the stain.  
(83) WOOD PRESERVATIVES are coatings formulated to protect wood from decay 
or insect attack by th e addition of a wood preservative chemical registered by the 
California Environmental Protection Agency.  Rule 1113 (Cont.)  (Amended February 5, 2016 ) 
1113 – 13 (84) WORKSITE means any location where architectural coating s are  stored or 
applied. 
(85) ZINC -RICH INDUSTRIAL MAINTENANCE PRIMERS are primers formulated 
to cont ain a minimum of 65 percent metallic zinc powder (zinc dust) by weight of 
total solids for application to metal substrates.  
(c) Requirements  
(1)  Except as provided in paragraphs (c)(3), (c)(4), no person shall supply, sell, offer 
for sale, market, manufacture, b lend, repackage, apply, store at a worksite, or 
solicit the application of any architectural coating within the District  that is listed 
in the Table of Standards 1 and contains VOC (excluding any colorant added to 
tint bases) in excess of the corresponding  VOC limit specified in the table, after 
the effective date specified . 
(2) No person  within the District  shall , at the point of sale of any architectural coating 
subject to paragraph (c)(1),  add to such coating any colorant that contains VOC in 
excess of the c orresponding applicable VOC limit specified in the Table of 
Standards 2.  Rule 1113 (Cont.)  (Amended February 5, 2016 ) 
1113 – 14 TABLE OF STANDARDS  1 
VOC LIMITS  
Grams of VOC Per Liter of Coating,  
Less Water and Less Exempt Compounds  
 
COATING CATEGORY  Category 
Codes  Current 
Limit1 Effective Date  Small 
Container  
Exemption  1/1/14  2/5/16  1/1/19  
Bond Breakers  5 350    ✓ 
Building Envelope Coating  62 100   50 ✓ 
Concrete -Curing Compounds  7 100    ✓ 
Concrete -Curing Compounds  
For Roadways and Bridges2 7 350    ✓3 
Concrete Surface Retarder  58 50 50   ✓ 
Default  51 50 50   ✓ 
Driveway Sealer  52 50    ✓ 
Dry-Fog Coatings  8 50 50   ✓ 
Faux Finishing Coatings        
Clear Topcoat  9a 100 100   ✓ 
Decorative Coatings  9 350    ✓ 
Glazes  9b 350    ✓ 
Japan  9c 350    ✓ 
Trowel Applied Coatings  9d 50 50   ✓ 
Fire-Proofing  Coatings  10 150 150   ✓ 
Flats  13 50    ✓5 
Floor Coatings  14 50    ✓ 
Form Release Compound  16 100 100   ✓ 
Graphic Arts (Sign) Coatings  17 200 150 200  ✓ 
Industrial Maintenance (IM) Coatings  19 100    ✓5 
Color Indicating Safety Coatings   480    ✓5 
High Temperature IM Coatings  18 420    ✓5 
Non-Sacrificial Anti -Graffiti Coatings  19a 100    ✓5 
Zinc-Rich IM Primers  56 100    ✓5 
Magnesite Cement Coatings  22 450    ✓3 
Mastic Coatings  23 100 100   ✓ 
Metallic Pigmented Coatings  24 150 150   ✓ 
Multi -Colo r Coatings  25 250    ✓3 
Nonflat Coatings  26, 27, 28  50    ✓5 
Pre-Treatment Wash Primers  29 420    ✓3 
Primers, Sealers, and Undercoaters  30 100    ✓ 
Reactive Penetrating Sealers  59 350    ✓4 
Recycled Coatings  33 250   150 ✓ 
Roof Coatings  34 50    ✓ 
Roof Coatings, Aluminum  53 100    ✓ 
Roof Primers, Bituminous  4 350    ✓3 
Rust Preventative Coatings  35 100    ✓6 
Sacrificial Anti -Graffiti Coatings  60 50    ✓3 
Shellac        
Clear  37 730    ✓4 
Pigmented  38 550    ✓4 
Specialty Primers  39 100    ✓ 
Stains 41 100    ✓ Rule 1113 (Cont.)  (Amended February 5, 2016 ) 
1113 – 15 COATING CATEGORY  Category 
Codes  Current 
Limit1 Effective Date  Small 
Container  
Exemption  1/1/14  2/5/16  1/1/19  
Stains, Interior  40 250    ✓ 
Stone Consolidants  61 450    ✓3 
Swimming Pool Coatings        
Repair  43 340    ✓3 
Other  42 340    ✓3 
Tile and Stone Sealers  63 100    ✓ 
Traffic Coatings  45 100    ✓ 
Tub and Tile Refinishing  Coatings  64 420    ✓4 
Waterproofing Sealers  48 100    ✓ 
Waterproofing Concrete/Masonry Sealers  49 100    ✓ 
Wood Coatings   275     
Varnish  46, 47 275     
Sanding Sealers  36 275     
Lacquer  20 275     
Wood Conditioners  65 100     
Wood Preservatives        
Below -Ground  50 350    ✓3 
Other  55 350    ✓3 
1. The specified limits remain in effect unless revised limits are listed in subsequent columns in the Table of 
Standards.  
2. Does not include compounds used for curbs and gutters, sidewalks, islands, driveways and other mi scellaneous 
concrete areas.  
3. Effective 02/05/2016 , the small container exemption no longer applies per (f)(1) . 
4. Effective 01/01/201 8, the small container exemption no longer applies per (f)(1).  
5. Effective 01/01/2019, the small container exemption is further r estricted per (f)(1).  
6. Effective 01/01/2020, the small container exemption is further restricted per (f)(1).  
 
TABLE OF STANDARDS  1 (cont.)  
VOC LIMITS  
Grams of VOC Per Liter of Material  
COATING  Limit  
Low-Solids Coating  120 
 Rule 1113 (Cont.)  (Amended February 5, 2016 ) 
1113 – 16 TABLE OF STANDARDS 2 
VOC LIMITS  FOR COLORANTS  
Grams of VOC Per Liter of Colorant  
Less Water and Less Exempt Compounds  
 
COLORANT  ADDED TO  Limit  
Architectural Coatings , excluding IM  Coatings  50 
Solvent -Based IM  600 
Waterborne IM  50 
. 
(3) Coating Categorization  
(A) If anywhere on the container  of any coating listed in either Table of 
Standards, on any sticker or label affixed thereto, or in any sales or 
advertising literature, any representation is made that the coating may be 
used as, or is suitable for use as, a coating for which a lower VOC 
standard is specified in the table or in paragraph (c)(1), then the lowest 
VOC standard shall apply . 
(B) The provisions of paragraph (c)(3)(A) shall not apply to a coating 
described in part as a flat  coating;  nonflat  coating;  primer , sealer , and 
undercoater ; or represented in part for use on flooring, provided that all of 
the following requirements are met:  
(i) The coating meets the definition of a specific coating category for 
which a higher VOC standard is specified in the Table of 
Standards,  
(ii) The coating is labe led in a manner consistent with the definition 
and all the specific labeling requirements for that specific coating 
category, and  
(iii) The coating is suitable and only recommended for the intended 
uses of that specific coating category.  
(C) The provisions of paragr aph (c)(3)(A) shall not apply to recycled coatings.  
(4) Sell-Through Provision  
(A) Any coating that is manufactured prior to the effective date of the 
applicable limit specified in the Table of Standards 1, and that has a VOC 
content above that limit (but not abov e the limit in effect on the date of 
manufacture), may be sold, supplied, offered for sale, or applied for up to 
three years after the specified effective date.  Rule 1113 (Cont.)  (Amended February 5, 2016 ) 
1113 – 17 (B) Any coating sold in a one -liter or smaller container that has a VOC 
content above the applicab le limit specified in the Table of Standards 1 for 
that coating, which is manufactured prior to the effective date of the 
elimination or restriction of the small container exemption listed in 
subparagraph (f)(1)(B) through (f)(1)(E), may be sold, supplied,  offered 
for sale, or applied for up to two years after the specified date.   
(5) All architectural coating or colorant containers  from which  the contents are used  
by pouring, siphoning, brushing, rolling, padding, ragging or other means, shall 
be closed when not in use.  These containers include, but should not be limited to: 
drums, buckets, cans, pails, trays or other storage or application containers.  
(6) No person shall apply or solicit the application within the District of any 
industrial maintenance coatings,  except non -sacrificial anti -graffiti coatings, for 
residential use or for use in areas such as office space and meeting rooms of 
industrial, commercial or institutional facilities not exposed to such extreme 
environmental conditions described in the defin ition of industrial maintenance 
coatings.  
(7) General Prohibition  
No person shall supply, sell, market, offer for sale, manufacture, blend, or 
repackage any architectural coating or colorant in the District subject to the 
provisions of this rule with any mater ials that contain in excess of 0.1  percent  by 
weight any Group II exempt compounds listed in Rule 102.  Cyclic, branched, or 
linear, completely methylated siloxanes (VMS) are not subject to this prohibition.  
(d) Administrative Requirements  
(1) Containers for all coatings , or any colorants  manufactured on and after January 1, 
2017, subject to this rule shall display the date of manufacture of the contents or a 
code indicating the date of manufacture.  The manufacturers of such coatings or 
colorants shall file with the Executive Officer of the District and the Executive 
Officer of the Air Resources Board an explanation of each code.  
(2) Containers for all coatings subject to the requirements of this rule shall carry a 
statement of the manufacturer's recommendation regard ing thinning of the 
coating.  This requirement shall not apply to the thinning of architectural coatings 
with water.  The recommendation shall specify that the coating is to be employed 
without thinning or diluting under normal environmental and applicatio n 
conditions, unless any thinning recommended on the label for normal Rule 1113 (Cont.)  (Amended February 5, 2016 ) 
1113 – 18 environmental and application conditions do not cause a coating to exceed its 
applicable standard.  
(3) Each container of any coating , or any colorant manufactured on and after January 
1, 201 7, subject to this rule shall display the maximum VOC content in grams per 
liter, as follow s: 
(A) For coatings or colorants packaged in a single container, the VOC per liter 
of coating (less water and less exempt compounds, and excluding any 
colorant added to the tint base) as supplied , after any recommended 
thinning;  
(B) For multi-component coating s, the VOC per liter of coating  (less water 
and exempt compounds, and excluding any colorant added to the tint base) 
after mixing the components , as recommended for use by the architectural 
coatings manufacturer ; 
(C) For concentrate s, the VOC per liter of coating (less water and exempt 
compounds, and excluding any colorant added to the tint base) at the 
minimum dilution recommended for use by the architectural coatings 
manufa cturer;  
(D) For l ow solids coatings, the VOC per liter of material (excluding any 
colorant added to the tint bases) after any recommended thinning ; and  
(E) VOC content displayed may be calculated using product formulation data, 
or may be determined using the test method in subdivision (e).  VOC 
content calculated from formulation data shall be adjusted by the 
manufacturer to account for cure volatiles (if any) and maximum VOC 
content within production batches.   The VOC  content  shall be displayed 
on the coating cont ainer such that the required language is : 
(i) Noticeable a nd in clear and legible English;  
(ii) Separated from other text ; and 
(iii) Conspicuous, as compared with other words, statements, designs, 
or devices in the label as to render it likely to be read and 
understood b y an ordinary individual under customary conditions 
of purchase or use.  
(4) The labels of all rust preventative coatings shall prominently display the statement 
“For Metal Substrates Only”.  
(5) The labels of all specialty primers shall prominently display one or m ore of the 
following descriptions:  
(A) For fire -damaged substrates.  Rule 1113 (Cont.)  (Amended February 5, 2016 ) 
1113 – 19 (B) For smoke -damaged substrates.  
(C) For water -damaged substrates.  
(D) For excessively chalky substrates.  
(6) The labels of concrete -curing compounds manufactured and used for roadways 
and bridges shall prom inently display the statement "FOR ROADWAYS AND 
BRIDGES ONLY (Not for Use on Curbs and Gutters, Sidewalks, Islands, 
Driveways and Other Miscellaneous Concrete Areas)".  
(7) All Clear Topcoat for Faux Finishing coatings shall prominently display the 
statement “T his product can only be sold as a part of a Faux Finishing coating 
system”.  
(8) A manufacturer, distributor, or seller of a coating meeting the requirements of this 
rule, who supplies that coating to a person who applies it in a non -compliant 
manner, shall not  be liable for that non -compliant use, unless the manufacturer, 
distributor, or seller knows that the supplied coating would be used in a non -
compliant manner.  
(9) Manufacturers of recycled coatings shall submit a letter to the Executive Officer 
certifying the ir status as a Recycled Paint Manufacturer.  
(e) Test Methods  
For the purpose of this rule, the following test methods shall be used:  
(1) VOC Content of Coatings  and Colorants  
The VOC content of coatings subject to the provisions of this rule shall be 
determined b y: 
(A) U.S. EPA Reference Test Method 24 (Determination of Volatile Matter 
Content, Water Content, Density, Volume Solids, and Weight Solids of 
Surface Coatings, Code of Federal Regulations Title 40, Part 60, 
Appendix A) with the exempt compounds’ content dete rmined by Method 
303 (Determination of Exempt Compounds) in the South Coast Air 
Quality Management District's (SCAQMD) "Laboratory Methods of 
Analysis for Enforcement Samples" manual, or  
(B) Method 304 (Determination of Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) in 
Various Materials ) in the SCAQMD's "Laboratory Methods of Analysis 
for Enforcement Samples" manual.  
(C) Method 313 (Determination  of Volatile Organic Compounds VOC by Gas 
Chromatography -Mass Spectrometr y) in the SCAQMD’s “Laboratory 
Methods of Analysis for Enforce ment Samples” manual.  Rule 1113 (Cont.)  (Amended February 5, 2016 ) 
1113 – 20 (D) ASTM Test Method 6886 (Standard Test Method for Determination of the 
Weight Percent Individual Volatile Organic Compounds in Waterborne 
Air-Dry Coatings by Gas Chromatography).  
(E) Exempt Perfluorocarbons  
The following classes of compound s: 
 cyclic, branched, or linear, completely fluorinated alkanes  
cyclic, branched, or linear, completely fluorinated ethers with no 
unsaturations  
cyclic, branched, or linear, completely fluorinated tertiary amines 
with no unsaturations  
sulfur -containing per fluorocarbons with no unsaturations and with 
sulfur bonds only to carbon and fluorine  
will be analyzed as exempt compounds for compliance with subdivision 
(c), only when manufacturers specify which individual compounds are 
used in the coating formulations.   In addition, the manufacturers must 
identify the U.S. EPA, CARB, and SCAQMD approved test methods, 
which can be used to quantify the amount of each exempt compound.  
(2) Acid Content of Coatings  
The acid content of a coating subject to the provisions of this rule shall be 
determined by ASTM Test Method D 1613 (Acidity in Volatile Solvents and 
Chemical Intermediates Used in Paint, Varnish, Lacquer, and Related Products).  
(3) Metal Content of Coatings  
The metallic content of a coating subject to the provisions of th is rule shall be 
determined by Method 318 (Determination of Weight Percent Elemental Metal in 
Coatings by X -Ray Diffraction) in the SCAQMD's "Laboratory Methods of 
Analysis for Enforcement Samples" manual.  
(4) Drying Times  
The set -to-touch, dry -hard, dry -to-touch, and dry -to-recoat times of a coating 
subject to the provisions of this rule shall be determined by ASTM Test Method D   
1640 (Standard Test Methods for Drying, Curing, or Film Formation of Organic 
Coatings at Room Temperature).  The tack -free time of a  coating subject to the 
provisions of this rule shall be determined by ASTM Test Method D 1640, 
according to the Mechanical Test Method . 
(5) Gloss Determination  
The gloss shall be determined by ASTM Test Method D 523 (Specular Gloss).  
(6) Gonioapparent Characteris tics for Coatings  Rule 1113 (Cont.)  (Amended February 5, 2016 ) 
1113 – 21 A coating will be determined to have a gonioapparent appearance by ASTM E 
284 (Standard Terminology of Appearance).  
(7) Performance criteria for Reactive Penetrating Sealers shall be determined by   the 
following:  
(A) Water Repellency  
(i) ASTM C67  (Standard Test Methods for Sampling and Testing 
Brick and Structural Clay Tile);  
(ii) ASTM C97/97M (Standard Test Methods for Absorption and Bulk 
Specific Gravity of Dimension Stone); or  
(iii) ASTM C140 (Standard Test Methods for Sampling and Testing 
Conc rete Masonry Units and Related Units).  
(B) Water Vapor Transmission  
(i) ASTM E96/96M (Standard Test Methods for Water Vapor 
Transmission of Materials); or  
(ii) ASTM D6490 (Standard Test Method for Water Vapor 
Transmission of Non film Forming Treatments Used on 
Cementit ious Panels).  
(C) Chloride Screening  shall be determined using the National Cooperative 
Highway Research Report 244 (1981), “Concrete Sealers for the 
Protection of Bridge Structures”.  
(8) Performance criteria for Building Envelope Coatings shall be determined by  the 
following:  
(A) Air Barriers : 
ASTM E2178 (Standard Test Method for Air Permeance of 
Building Materials).  
(B) Water Resistive Barriers  
(i) ASTM E331 ( Standard Test Method for Water Penetration of 
Exterior Windows, Skylights, Doors, and Curtain Walls by 
Uniform Static  Air Pressure Difference) ; and  
(ii) ASTM E96/96M (Standard Test Methods for Water Vapor 
Transmission of Materials).  
(9) Selection and Use of Stone Consolidants shall be determined by ASTM E21 67 
(Standard Guide for Selection and Use of Stone Consolidants).  
(10) Performan ce criteria for Tub and Tile Refinishing Coating s shall be determined 
by the following : 
(A) ASTM D3363 (Standard Test Method for Film Hardness by Pencil Test);  Rule 1113 (Cont.)  (Amended February 5, 2016 ) 
1113 – 22 (B) ASTM D4060 (Standard Test Method for Abrasion Resistance of Organic 
Coatings by the Taber Abraser) ; 
(C) ASTM D4585 (Standard Practice for Testing Water Resistance of 
Coatings Using Controlled Condensation) ; 
(D) ASTM D714 (Standard Test Method for Evaluating Degree of Blistering 
of Paints) ; and  
(E) ASTM D3359 (Standard Test Methods for Measuring Adhesion by Tape 
Test). 
(11) Performance criteria for penetrating Tile and Stone Sealers shall be determined by 
the following:  
(A) Penetration of Dense Tile 
(i) ASTM C373 (Standard Test Method for Water Absorption, Bulk 
Density, Apparent Porosity, and Apparent Specific Gravity of 
Fired Whi teware Products, Ceramic Tiles, and Glass Tiles);  
(ii) ASTM C97/C97M (Standard Test Methods for Absorption and 
Bulk Specific Gravity of Dimension Stone) ; or  
(iii) ASTM C642  (Standard Test Method for Density, Absorption, and 
Voids in Hardened Concrete) . 
(B) Static Coeffi cient of Friction  by American National Standard Specification 
for Ceramic Tile ( ANSI A137.1 ). 
(C) Water Vapor Transmission by ASTM E96/96M (Standard Test Methods 
for Water Vapor Transmission of Materials).  
(12) Degree of Chalk ing Determination  
ASTM D4214 ( Standard Test Methods for Evaluating the Degree of Chalking of 
Exterior Paint Film s). 
(13) Equivalent Test Methods  
Other test methods determined to be equivalent after review by the Executive 
Officer, CARB, and the U.S. EPA, and approved in writing by the District 
Execu tive Officer may also be used.  
(14) Multiple Test Methods  
When more than one test method or set of test methods are specified for any 
testing, a violation of any requirement of this rule established by any one of the 
specified test methods or set of test method s shall constitute a violation of the 
rule. 
(15) All test methods referenced in this subdivision shall be the version most recently 
approved by the appropriate governmental entities.  Rule 1113 (Cont.)  (Amended February 5, 2016 ) 
1113 – 23 (f) Exemptions  
(1) Small Container Exemption  
The provisions of the Table of Standards  1 and paragraph (c)(1) of this rule shall 
not apply to  architectural coatings in containers having capacities of one liter 
(1.057 quart) or less, but shall apply to the following:  
(A) Wood Coatings , including Lacquers, Varnishes, and Sanding Sealers.  
(B) Effectiv e February 5, 2016 , Concrete -Curing Compounds For Roadways 
and Bridges;  Magnesite Cement Coatings; Multi -Color Coatings; Pre -
Treatment Wash Primers; Roof Primers, Bituminous; Sacrificial Anti -
Graffiti Coatings; Stone Conso lidant s; Repair and Other Swimming  Pool 
Coatings; and Below -Ground and Other  Wood Preservatives . 
(C) Effective January 1, 201 8, Tub and Tile Refinishing  Coatings; Clear and 
Pigmented Shellacs; and Reactive Penetrating Sealers.  
(D) Effective January 1, 2019, Flats and Nonflat Coatings  that are sold : 
(i) In containers having capacities greater than eight fluid ounce , or 
(ii) For purposes other than touch  up. 
(E) Effective January 1, 2019, Industrial Maintenance Coatings , including 
Color Indicating Safety Coatings, High Temperature IM Coating s, Non -
Sacrificial Ant i-Graffiti Coatings,  and Zinc -Rich IM Primers  that are sold:  
(i) In containers having capacities greater than one liter, or 
(ii) For purposes other than touch  up, or  
(iii) Displayed or advertised for sale  at a retail outlet.  
(F)  Effective January 1, 2020, Rust Preventat ive Coatings that are sold:  
(i) In containers having capacities greater than eight fluid ounce, or  
(ii) For purposes other than touch up.  
(2) The small container exemption only applies if the following conditions are met:  
(A) The manufacturer reports the sales in the Rule 314 Annual Quantity and 
Emissions Report. The loss of this exemption due to the failure of the 
manufacturer to submit the Rule 314 Annual Quantity and Emissions 
Report shall apply only to the manufacturer.  
(B) The coating containers  of the same specif ic coating category listed in  the 
Table of Standards 1 , are not bundled together to be sold as a unit that 
exceeds one liter (1.057 quarts), or eight fluid ounces for coatings under 
subparagraph (f)(1)( D) as of January 1, 2019 , or eight fluid ounces for 
coatings under subparagraph (f)(1)(F) as of January 1, 2020,  excluding 
containers packed together for shipping to a retail outlet.  Rule 1113 (Cont.)  (Amended February 5, 2016 ) 
1113 – 24 (C) The label or any other product literature does not suggest combining 
multiple containers so that the combination exceeds one li ter (1.057 
quarts)  or eight fluid ounces under (f)(1)( D) as of January 1, 2019 , or eight 
fluid ounces for coatings under subparagraph (f)(1)(F) as of January 1, 
2020 . 
(3) The provisions of subparagraph (d)(1) through (d)(7) shall not apply to 
architectural coa tings in containers having capacities of two fluid ounces (59mL) 
or less.  
(4) The provisions of this rule shall not apply to:  
(A) Architectural coatings supplied, sold, offered for sale, marketed, 
manufactured, blended, repackaged or stored in this District fo r shipment 
outside of this District or for shipment to other manufacturers for 
repackaging.  
(B) Emulsion type bituminous pavement sealers.  
(C) Aerosol coating products.  
(D) Use of stains and lacquers in all areas within the District at an elevation of 
4,000 feet or greater above sea level or sale in such areas for such use.  
(5) The provisions of paragraph (c) shall not apply to facilities which apply coatings 
to test specimens for purposes of research and development of those coatings.  
(g) Solvent Cleaning  
(6) Solvent  cleaning that is conducted as part of a business including solvent cleaning 
of architectural coating application equipment  and the storage and disposal of 
VOC -containing materials used in cleaning operations are subject to the 
provisions of  Rule 1171 - Solvent Cleaning Operations.  
(7) Solvent cleaning that is not conducted as part of a business  and solvent  thinning 
of coating s including solvent cleaning of architectural coating application 
equipment and solvent thinning of architectural coatings are subject to  the 
provisions of Rule 1143 – Consumer Paint Thinner and Multi -Purpose Solvents.  
 